Cornell University Law School
Scholarship@Cornell Law: A Digital Repository
Cornell e-Rulemaking Initiative Publications Centers and Programs
2017
CeRI (Cornell e-Rulemaking) Moderator Protocol
Cornell eRulemaking Initiative
Follow this and additional works at: https://scholarship.law.cornell.edu/ceri
Part of the Administrative Law Commons, and the Policy Design, Analysis, and Evaluation Commons
This Data, Manuals, and Protocols is brought to you for free and open access by the Centers and Programs at Scholarship@Cornell Law: A Digital Repository. It has been accepted for inclusion in Cornell e-Rulemaking Initiative Publications by an authorized administrator of Scholarship@Cornell Law: A Digital Repository. For more information, please contact jmp8@cornell.edu.
Recommended Citation Cornell eRulemaking Initiative, "CeRI (Cornell e-Rulemaking) Moderator Protocol" (2017). Cornell e-Rulemaking Initiative Publications. 21. https://scholarship.law.cornell.edu/ceri/21
1
2017 - CeRI (Cornell e-Rulemaking Initiative)
CeRI (Cornell e-Rulemaking) Moderator Protocol
From 2005-2017, CeRI was a multidisciplinary group of Cornell University researchers engaged in
theoretical and applied research, in partnership with government agencies and civil society groups, to
discover how the design and process of online engagement can support public discussion that is
informed, inclusive and insightful.
The Moderator Protocol was used by moderators (students in a Cornell Law School e-Government
Clinic) to facilitate dialogue and discussion during live discussions on our RegulationRoom.org and
SmartParticipation.com platforms. It is provided here as a resource and reference tool. Additional
information on the project is available at SmartParticipation.com.
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grants No. IIS-
1314778. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are
those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
Moderation Overview:
Our primary goal is to achieve better and broader public participation in complex policymaking.
Moderators help create an environment of informed and thoughtful participation and mentor effective
commenting behavior.
Moderators move participants past “voting and venting” behaviors to effectively contributing
the information they possess. They also make participants feel that their voices have been heard and
that they are part of a forum for civic engagement. We consider moderators part of the community—
contributing to the discourse and educating (and being educated by) the participants. 
Moderator Persona:
Moderators are advocates for the commenting process. Moderators encourage a “knowledge
building community” that supports commenters’ access to, participation in, and learning about the
policymaking process. Moderators help commenters to both contribute as individuals and collaborate
with each other towards consensus. They facilitate dialogue and are recognized as having authority
and expertise. Moderators keep a positive tone and should be respected by and show respect to all
participants – they model the behavior we desire for the community.
2
Moderators remain neutral at all times. They do not take a position on the substance of the
Discussion and must avoid forming biases on or making assumptions about participant’s comments.
Moderator neutrality is also essential for ensuring the legitimacy of the commenting and summarizing
process, and for maintaining the principles of SmartParticipation design and operation.
The Process of Moderating
When a moderator receives a comment, it is natural to start immediately thinking of a
response. Avoid this temptation. The process of responding to a comment is first and foremost an
exercise in active listening. The moderator must first carefully read and reflect to understand what the
commenter is saying. The process of responding to a comment is filled with steps that occur before
writing the response even begins. Moderator questions should be purposeful; a moderator may only
have one opportunity to interact with a commenter.
Moderators’ Primary Responsibilities:
I. Become an Expert on the Discussion and Website Operation: Moderators are responsible for
being experts on the substantive content of the Discussion, as well as use of the
SmartParticipation website.
II. Supervise the SmartParticipation Community: Moderators are responsible for maintaining and
encouraging the community norms of dialogue, civility, learning, and accessibility on the site.
III. Facilitate Informed, Thoughtful, and Effective Commenting: Moderators are responsible for
helping commenters to make the most meaningful contribution they are able to provide, and for
encouraging collaboration in commenting and learning about the commenting process.
I. Provide Expert Assistance on the Discussion and Website Operation
Moderators are authorities on the substance of the discussion, site operation, and the needs of
the agency (or other body.)
Before Moderating, you should:
Familiarize Yourself with the Operations of the Website
You will be given access to the staging and/or a training site to practice on before the live
opening. Make sure you log-on and use the site. Explore all the pages and links, and use the moderator
interface. Any problems or questions should be sent to the Fellow.
3
Read and Understand the Discussion and Related Documents
Read all the issue posts and any additional documents provided. If time has allowed for it, you
will have contributed to the outreach plan and drafted issue posts. Both these activities will assist with
your knowledge of the discussion. Students should also build a document with URLS of useful links. For
example, in the Mortgage Servicing Rule, we referred users to a HUD approved housing counselor
when they needed help with a loan going into foreclosure.
Develop a Co-moderation Strategy and Schedule
The Fellow will create a moderation schedule in advance. Make sure you know when you are
scheduled to moderate. You will be responsible for ALL comments that are posted during your
moderation schedule. This includes comments you have asked the Fellow or Professors for assistance
with – even if their responses come after your scheduled shift. Occasionally, we may schedule more
than one moderator for a shift for posts that are receiving many comments. If this occurs, make sure
you have developed a strategy to co-moderate, i.e. by section.
II. Supervise the SmartParticipation Community
Moderators are responsible for maintaining and encouraging the community norms of
dialogue, civility, learning, and accessibility on the site. In supervising the community, it is important
that moderators (1) use the correct tone and wording when responding to commenters; (2) intervene
when users are having difficulty with website functionality, and (3) ensure that participants are using
the site appropriately and responsibly.
1. Using the Correct Tone and Wording
Moderators are responsible for maintaining the norms of the SmartParticipation community
through both direct intervention and by modeling a tone of conversatio	n that encourages
participation, dialogue and learning. In general, moderators should try to craft responses that are
receptive and encouraging, and model an overall attitude of intellectual curiosity and civility.
Remain Neutral on the Comment Substance and Commenter’s Viewpoint: Use simple, declarative
sentences when helping commenters find information or better understand the discussion.
• That clarification is available in several forms on the agency documents page.
• DOT has estimated that the benefits of this Discussion will outweigh the costs.
Avoid questions that challenge a user’s opinion or their basis for making statements. Instead, use
questions to encourage more information sharing or to clarify how they reached their conclusions:
4
• This is an interesting suggestion, whitneyq, thanks. Could you provide a little bit more
information on the guidelines, and perhaps a link to them, so that others can see what
you mean?
• What you have described would be considered a “covered error” under the CFPB’s
proposed error resolution rules. Do you think that these rules would have been helpful to
you in your situation? Check out CFPB’s proposed error resolution procedures and tell us
what you think.
Avoid Evaluative and/or Condescending Responses: Avoid “you” statements; avoid expressing
surprise (no exclamation points).
• What do you mean by crap tires! OR Your comment is vague.
Always use plain language: Plain language “is communication your audience can understand the
first time they read or hear it.” Use short sentences and common, everyday words and terms.
Avoid using technical terms in your response.
Limit the number of questions: Questions are commonly used in moderator comments; however,
too many questions in one moderator comment may confuse or intimidate the commenter. The
general rule is that one moderator comment should not have more than one or two questions.
One exception is when dealing with a sophisticated returning commenter, and as appropriate,
more questions can be asked.
Don’t make assumptions: When the moderator is not completely sure what the commenter is
saying, it is always a good idea to rephrase what the moderator thinks the commenter is saying at
the beginning of the moderator comment (e.g. “It sound like you are saying X…”) and then ask the
commenter whether your rephrasing is an accurate portrayal of what they were trying to say.
• Welcome to Regulation Room, andrea from md. Banks can transfer the servicing rights
for your mortgage to other companies. Is that what happened to you? If so, what do you
think of the proposed notice of the servicing transfer?
Be curious: Moderators should model a spirit of inquiry and a desire to learn from and understand
commenter’s experience and views. Beware of unconscious biases toward comments you find less
interesting or germane – or biases towards certain types of commenters. Try to be interested in the
5
bases upon which each commenter stakes his or her claims and the lines of reasoning that has led
each commenter to those particular conclusions.
• “It sounds like you’re suggesting that the new servicer should disclose to the borrower all
the information it received from the old servicer. Do you think that the new rules on
information requests and error resolution would protect borrowers from mishandled
information? The costs of responding to error requests may be much lower than the
disclosures you suggest.”
2. Intervene when users are having difficulty with website functionality or have questions about the
site.
Assist with technical or other site use issues: Occasionally a commenter may have a direct
question about the site or you will be able to see they are having difficulties.
• Thanks for your comment. It looks like your previous submission has reappeared. I'll let
our site programmer know there might have been a problem.
• You can comment on another post by clicking on the reply button that appears on the
bottom right hand corner of the post.
Explaining the role of the moderator: You may have to explain the goals/policy of moderation and
who we are (e.g., nongovernmental status).
• Thank you for your response, trucking. The moderators of the Regulation Room don't
take a position on guidelines; our job is to help commenters use SmartParticipation to
share their views, learn from others, and be informed about the proposed guidelines.
• Commenter, thank you for returning and continuing to participate in this discussion. We
don’t have a position pro or con the proposed guidelines. (Regulation Room is not run by
[the agency].) The main goal of the Regulation Room is to provide useful and effective
comments to the agency. Our job is to help every person air his or her views in the most
effective way - whatever those views are.
3. Ensure that participants are using the site appropriately and responsibly.
In supervising the community, moderators are responsible for ensuring that commenters using the
site appropriately and responsibly. Moderators also set the tone for the user’s experience on the
site with simple acknowledgements of participation.
Be welcoming, encouraging and acknowledging: It is important to welcome participants by making
them feel appreciated and part of the community. However, it’s important not to be rote. Try to
6
make your welcome unique; if a commenter looks at all the comments in a stream, they all
shouldn’t have identical starting sentences, i.e. “Welcome to Regulation Room and thanks for your
comment.”
• You raise an interesting point about how the proposed EOBR rule would affect carriers
that use older, non-electronic trucks.
• bedbugbob, that is a great question, and many share your concern. Can anyone else
share information about this?
• Thanks for the link, whitneyq.
Redacting and quarantining comments: On rare occasions, moderators may have to redact or
quarantine inappropriate comments. The site already screens for a number of known profanities
and will automatically add asterisk. Quarantining a comment removes the comment from the
website. It is only to be done in extreme circumstances and should always be approved by
Professor Newhart and/or the Fellow. When you redact a comment, a portion of the comment will
be removed and replaced by asterisks (* * * *). Redacting a comment is done when a commenter
uses inappropriate language or includes personally identifiable information. If a comment is
relevant we do not want to remove it, even if language used by the commenter is inappropriate or
personal information is included. Instead, we redact the inappropriate word(s) and leave the rest
of the comment on the website.
• The Electronic logs are costly and I’m totally against them just because of some dumb
a** that got in accident because he was driving when he should have been doing a reset.
Duplicate comments: If a commenter makes duplicative comments, moderators can chose which
post is most appropriate and redact duplicative comments. Occasionally, commenters will post
similar content across posts. If you are uncertain if it should be redacted, contact the Fellow.
Redacted text should note that the moderator removed the comment because it was a duplicate.
Moderators can add a link to the remaining comment, if they think it is appropriate.
Civility policing: Civility policing is needed when the interaction between commenters becomes
heated and offensive. The type of comment that requires civility policing is similar to the type of
comments that need to be redacted or quarantined. The difference is that the comment that needs
to be redacted or quarantined is offensive on its face; while, the comment that needs civility
policing may be fine on its face but when put in context of the conversation between the
commenters, it is inappropriate. Civility policy, should only be done in extreme circumstances and
should always be approved by Professor Newhart and/or the Fellow.
7
• This discussion is about more than Pro/Con EOBRs. The policymaking process isn’t like
voting. The decision to have some kind of regulation has already been made, and this is
an opportunity for those who will be impacted by that regulation to shape it. We ask
that all stay away from ridicule, sarcasm, and personalized attack.
• mjhaha, The purpose of Regulation Room is to provide an environment in which people
can learn about important proposed government regulations and discuss them in ways
that help the agency make a better final decision. Everyone who comments on the site is
expected to remain civil and respectful. Please see the Terms & Conditions you agreed to
when you registered. Comments should address the regulation CFPB is proposing. As a
small community bank, you could provide important information on the actual costs the
Discussions will create for small servicers.
Wrong Venue: Directing a commenter outside of the SmartParticipation site (e.g., to the Agency
website specifically so they can get more information about a topic NOT covered in this
policymaking). This can include encouraging the commenter to report actual violations to
appropriate agencies. Note: this is a different action from directing a user out of the site to
information relevant to the current Discussion.
• idrive, you can let FMCSA know that your employer is making it hard for you to comply
with the HOS policyeither online at this website or by calling them at 1-888-DOT-SAFT
(1-888-368-7238).
III. Facilitate Informed, Thoughtful, and Effective Commenting
Locate the Comment in the Discussion: Context is essential to really understand what a
commenter is saying. Sometimes comments can be confusing or seemingly nonsensical when
viewed in isolation but add value to the discussion when viewed in context. Moderators should
navigate away from the moderator interface to the actual discussion before crafting a response.
Learn about the Commenter: Looking to the commenter's comment history often sheds light on
what the commenter is saying in the comment at issue. For example, some commenters have
special knowledge or experience with one aspect of the rule. These commenters may draw
connections to seemingly unrelated issues and craft comments that do not make much sense when
read in isolation. These comments may in fact be off-topic, or they may represent a unique
recognition that the two issues are commingled. But without looking to the commenter's history to
8
flesh out the comment, it is often difficult for moderators to understand the comment, let alone
assess its effectiveness.
What is an Effective Comment? An effective comment is an informed comment. The commenter
should address what is actually being proposed, consider and react to the factual assumptions and
policy arguments, and make suggestions and criticisms consistent with the agencies statutory
authority and mandate. Our participants often contribute experiential (or situated) knowledge
gained from their on-the-ground, first-hand exposure to the problems, circumstances, or solutions
involved in the proposed policy. An effective comment may:
• Use personal experience to reveal and explore contradictions, tensions, or disagreements
within what otherwise may appear to be a unitary set of interest or practices.
• Use situated knowledge to identify contributory causes of the problem the agency aims to
resolve. The factors they identify may or may not be within the agency’s regulatory
authority, but they should be aware of them because these factors might affect the costs of
efficacy of new regulatory measures.
• Predict possible outcomes and effects of the Discussion that are different than those the
agency is seeking to achieve.
• Help the agency reframe the issues, including the competing values at stake.
How Do We Respond to Useful Comments? Moderators have four options when responding to an
effective comment. The technique will depend on the conversation (i.e. is it their first comment?
Are they responding to a moderator?). Depending on the situation, the moderator could:
1. Encourage the commenter to come back and make more comments on the particular issue
post. You might thank them for their comment and ask their opinion on another agency
question. It could be on the same post or another issue post.
2. Use the comment to generative discussions among commenters. The moderator could ask
others what they think of the comment or if they have something to add.
3. Not respond – may be an appropriate technique if this is a user who has made multiple
comments and has responded to the moderator.
4. Recommend the comment to others – we can recognize good comments with a
“moderator recommended” heart icon on the site. This is a way to model good comments
for other users.
9
How do we know a comment is not effective? An ineffective comment doesn’t provide
information that contributes to the agency’s decision-making process because it is off-topic or it
does not give reasons or provide substantiation for the claims. It may just state a preference or
make a claim without providing reasons or substantiation. These types of comments aren’t
discarded; instead, moderators prompt commenters to improve their comment.
How do we help commenters improve? Moderators must help/educate the commenter to be able
to make useful comments and get his or her message across to the agency. Novice commenters
often don’t understand that simply stating a preference is an effective comment. It is the
moderator’s job to help the commenter to articulate their reasoning for preferences and to
substantiate their claims. It is likely they expect quick, simple, and low-effort participation.
Moderators must help reset these expectations and mentor newcomers in developing the kinds of
participation that produce meaningful comments. Moderator responses encourage commenters
to:
• Demonstrate an understanding of the relevant facts, circumstances, and issues
• Articulate reasons for their preferences
• Consider and evaluate a range of possible outcome alternatives
• Engage with and respond to opposing points of view
If the commenter is making off-topic comments on an issue post, we want to be able to redirect
them to the correct issue post or rule. And in rare circumstances, we want to deter and/or correct
uncivil or unruly behavior. Use the following set of questions, in order, to decide how to respond to
comments to help users improve them. Examples of interventions for each question are below.
1. Focusing the commenter
a. Is the comment in the right place?
If not, help the commenter to focus by directing them to another discussion topic or
subtopic that applies to their comment. If the moderator feels the comment should be
moved to a more appropriate post, notify the Fellow and/or Prof. Newhart. The lead
technologist can move comments, but because it may confuse users we do this
sparingly.
10
• 5 culvers, do you think FMCSA made a mistake in calculating the costs, since for
them the benefits outweigh the costs? Go back to the Costs post and let us know
where you think there are errors.
b. Is the comment is on-topic?
If not, refocus the commenter to engage the issue post. Look for a way to connect the
substance of the comment to the issue post, or remind the commenter of the agency’s
goals and/or questions. You may have to correct misstatements or clarify what the
agency is looking for.
• Trucking, smart phones are not at issue in this proposed rule. However, some
commenters have suggested that smart phones are capable of doing what an
EOBR does, but can do it cheaper. Do you think that using a smartphone to track
HOS would be a better option and/or would work?
• For the costs and benefits, the DOT is looking for your reactions to the estimated
costs and benefits, as well as your reactions to their methodology. Do you think
they did a good job in their calculations? Do you think the balance of costs &
benefits justifies each of the proposed regulations?
3. Is the comment clear? Do you understand the commenter’s meaning?
If you don’t understand the commenter’s meaning, ask for clarification. Usually, this will require
the moderator to paraphrase what the commenter she/he believes the commenter is trying to
say and then ask them for confirmation.
• It sounds like you feel that when drivers violate HOS rules, it’s often because of things
outside their control, like your example of shippers and receivers holding them up. Is
that right? It would be great to hear more about your experiences with Peoplenet.
What did you like about it?
4. Is the comment substantiated, does it contain reasoning? Do you know how the commenter
arrived at their conclusion?
Comments are more useful and persuasive when they provide reasons and substation for
claims, i.e. how the commenter came to their conclusions. A simple opinion or value judgment
(“I like that” or “That’s wrong”) is not useful. An effective comment will provide information on
why or how the commenter formed their opinion and may offer insight on how the proposed
rule advances or is in conflict with the commenter’s particular needs and interests.
Commenters may offer different types of knowledge:
11
• Declarative “this is what things are” – fact, definition, description, life experience,
objective substation – verifiable information
o Most warranties from the major EOBR vendors are 3 years
o I am a company driver
• Procedural “how the community of practice does things” - Practices, contexts, norms,
existing ways of coping with problems
o EOBR’s track us by the minute, but carriers insist on paying via the antiquated
method of mileage pay
o I can say from may own fleet that I’ve caught drivers going 40 miles out of route
simply because they thought it was faster.
• Schematic “why things are the way they are”) – values, explanations of causes,
reframing the regulatory issues
o Providing them with advance notice allows them to make changes to their route.
• Strategic “how and why things may turn out in a particular way”- unintended
consequences; detailing complexity
o if you buy an EOBR today that is 395.15 compliant, it will be grandfathered into
the 395.16 program until 2014, at which point you will need a 395.16 compliant
device.
A commenter’s source of knowledge may come from:
• First-hand experience - their own personal experience, something that has happened to
them.
o I have been pulled over for various things and pulled in for inspections and have
very rarely been asked to see my logbook
• Observation – witnessing something happening to one’s relatives, coworkers, etc.
something they saw happen to another person
o Most drivers that like EOBRS that i have talked to are brand new to the Industry
and drive for the large carriers
• Membership in a community of practice – refers to knowledge or practice commonly
shared or understood by one’s community
o When we go to the EOBR, will we as drivers need to carry travelling papers to be
legal
These are legitimate types of knowledge that can be used for reasoning and substantiation. If it
is not apparent from the comment how they reached their conclusion, or if their comment
12
could be strengthened by further elaboration, the following questioning techniques can
encourage commenters to better explain their reasoning and offer more of their knowledge.
a) Asking for an example of a personal experience that helps to substantiate their claim
• Could you give an example of a personal experience, or someone else’s experience
that you know of, that illustrates how the paperwork requirements under the
current Discussion are burdensome?
b) Situating a story or experience
When the commenter provides an example, try to clarify whether the story or experience is
based on their own knowledge, or the experience of someone they know. You can also ask
the commenter whether he or she feels that their experience is unique or is a more
common experience in their cultural context.
• Thank you for sharing this experience, jeff. Did this happen to you or someone you
know?
• Thank you for sharing your story, hazel. It brings up many of the issues DOT is trying
to address in this Discussion, such as how long truck drivers currently spend doing
paperwork. Do you feel that this story is unique? Or is this something that is more
commonplace in your experience?
c) Asking them to provide more information, factual details, or data to support their
declarative statements
This type of response is generally used when dealing with a good comment with
information that the agency would be interested in. There are two primary purposes to this
type of intervention. First, the commenter probably has other information that the agency
may be interested in. Second, the agency is also interested in any sources of the
information the commenter could provide.
• Thanks for the information Dr Mom. So that more users and the DOT could access
the information, perhaps you could post a link to a pdf version of the study or the
name and author of the study.
• Hi damnin. Would you share with us your source for the statistics that you cite for
the low number of truck crashes?
d) Asking for elaboration
This intervention is generally used when there is a good comment but the content is very
general. The moderator asks specific questions about the comment and encourages the
13
commenter to brainstorm and think through the comment some more. Ideally, the
commenter will add more information and detail and arrive at a more informed Discussion.
This type of response also helps other commenters learn about the thinking process behind
a good comment.
• You mentioned that the government could subsidize production of new trucks so that
they come pre-fitted with EOBRs. Could you share more details about how you see
this working? Would truck owners receive subsidies to equip old trucks as well?
e) Pointing out characteristics of effective commenting
• We certainly hope truck drivers will air their opinions to give us that important "on
the ground" perspective. However, opinions alone, without providing more
explanation or reasoning, are not useful to DOT because they do not help the
commission figure out what is wrong with the proposed rule and what needs to be
changed. What makes a comment persuasive in a policymaking? Check out our
Effective Commenting page
• Virgil Tatro, policymaking isn’t about voting or just expressing your opinion. The kind
of comments that really matter are those that explain exactly why the commission
should or shouldn’t do something. One person with some new information or a really
good idea will have more impact than 1,000 people who just give an opinion. So, how
do you make comments that count? Focus on parts of the commission Discussion
that will affect you directly, or that you know something about. Express your
concerns and suggestions clearly. To learn more about effective commenting check
out our Effective Commenting page
f) Pointing the commenter to relevant information in primary documents or other data
sources
• DOT is currently proposing that websites be required to conform to the WCAG 2.0
Level AA accessibility standards (http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/).
• The current regulations require that a driver reconstruct RODS for the past 7 days in
the event of an EOBR failure and then keep a handwritten RODS until the EOBR is
fixed. (You can read more here, here, and here.)
g) Asking them to make or consider possible solutions/alternative approaches
• Thanks for your comment, openreels. The issue with international flights is that
people let back into the airport might need to go through Customs and Immigration
14
again. Do you think creating a special terminal zone where people could wait
without having to be re-admitted by Customs and Immigration would be a viable
solution, at least for international flights?
• Thank you for your insightful comment and alternative suggestion. With regard to
your comment on the caps, what do you think would be a better amount, in your
opinion to limit overbooking, or, if as you say the auction scheme is a better
alternative, how do you think the DOT should go about implementing and enforcing
such a system for the airlines?
5. Can the comment stimulate further engagement?
If the comment has the basic properties of informed participation, moderator intervention may
then focus on developing the comment further or stimulating discussion between this
commenter and another. This type of intervention works best when you find a comment that
brings up intriguing issues or questions.
(a) Encouraging commenters to consider and engage the comments of other
commenters, with or without specifically linking to another comment
• What do you think of the ideas jeff raises below?
• Trucking, smart phones are not at issue in this proposed rule. However, some
commenters have suggested that smart phones are capable of doing what an
EOBR does, but can do it cheaper. Are you suggesting that you agree or
disagree with this?
(b) Posing a question to the community at large that encourages other commenters to
respond
• Welcome, Hgranato. You raise a unique point. Is regulating peanuts in this
manner arbitrary? What do other commenters think?
• Thanks for the comment, pkcamper! Do you have links to the articles you
mentioned? Has anyone else found that the information collected by the
EOBR could be easily changed?
• Have other commenters been stopped by officers who didn't check their
logbooks? If so, do you agree that having officers actually check the logbooks
would increase compliance with the HOS rules?
15
Listing of Moderator Roles and Related Interventions
Roles: Interventions:
Supervisory
Social
Functions
Welcoming, encouraging and acknowledging
Site Use Issues Resolving technical difficulties
Role of
Moderator
Providing information about the goals/rules of moderation
Providing information about who we (CeRI) are
Policing Redact and quarantine
Duplicate comments
Civility policing
Wrong venue
Substantive
Focusing Commenter
If comment was added to the wrong post, redirect to the correct issue post
If comment is off topic, refocus commenter
Correcting misstatements or clarifying what the agency is looking for
Clarity Asking for clarification to determine commenter meaning/intent
Focusing Comment
Getting an off-topic commenter to engage the issue post
Point them to relevant issue posts or related information
Substantiation and Reasoning
Examples of a personal experience
Situating a story or experience
More information (factual details or data) or elaboration
Characteristics of effective commenting
Pointing to relevant information
Consider possible solutions/alternatives
Further Engagement
Encourage users to consider and engage comments of others
Posing a question or comment to the community 
